# Linux File System Explained

- / (Root)The base directory of the entire file system from which all other directories branch out. All directories and files reside under the root directory.

- /bin Contains essential user binary executables that are needed in single user mode and to bring the system up or repair it.

- /boot Stores the static bootloader and kernel files needed to boot the operating system.

- /dev This directory contains device nodes or files that represent hardware components or drivers.

- /etc Configuration files for the system and application settings are located here. It's the administrative directory.

- /home Personal directories for users of the system are found here, with subdirectories for each user.

- /lib Essential shared library images needed for booting the system and running the commands in the root filesystem.

- /media This is a mount point for removable media devices, such as USB drives and CDs.

- /mnt Temporarily mounted filesystems and devices are usually mounted here by the system administrator.

- /opt Optional or third-party software that doesn't conform to the standard file system hierarchy can be found here.

- /proc A virtual and dynamic pseudo-filesystem that provides access to kernel and process information as files.

- /root This is the home directory for the root user and is not part of /home to ensure the root user can log in even if /home is not available.

- /sbin This directory holds system administration binaries that are generally not meant for execution by normal users.

- /tmp A place for temporary files used by applications and the system.

- /usr Contains the majority of user utilities and applications, including the home directories of many programs.

- /var Variable data like logs, databases, websites, and temporary files generated by the system and the users are placed here.